Hello, everybody.
I'm happy to see so many people here
interested in turn-based gaming.
For those of you who were around earlier,
you would have seen some of
the other interesting things
we can do with Game Center,
but this is totally new for
iOS 5 and turn-based gaming.
I'm Gabriel,
and I'll be with you for the next hour,
hopefully, and we have a lot to say.
So this is Game Center and
the Game Kit framework.
We've seen this before.
There's really three pieces to this.
It's a Game Center app.
There's a Game Kit framework
and Game Kit services.
And so what I'm going to be talking
about is just turn-based gaming,
and that really falls
into the middle category.
And there's a set of APIs that we
provided for you that will allow
you to create turn-based games.
We think of these as social asynchronous,
a little bit leisurely.
People don't have to be
there all at the same time,
but we're really going to be
focusing on the middle piece for now.
Just an introduction,
some of the things I'll be talking about.
As I mentioned, turn-based gaming is new.
I hope to see in the next few months
a whole bunch of new turn-based games.
I'm going to talk about the API and
the user interface that we provide
to help you create these games.
We'll talk about different types
of games that you can create.
I'll talk about how you
can manage the game,
so the state of the game
and the flow of the game,
how people -- how you
pass the turn around,
essentially.
And I'll go over a bunch of
code from the API so you can
actually see how it's implemented.
And that will be a little bit of a demo.
Specifically what I'm going to
be talking about sort of in this
order in a few different ways.
The Game Center turn-based API basics.
So what are the basics that you
need to know in order to get your
turn-based game off the ground?
What handlers you need to implement,
what notifications you'll get,
all those kind of things.
I'll show you how you
can start a new match.
I'll show you how you can
make turns in a match.
Notifications that you'll need to handle.
And finally, how you finish the
match once you're done.
So what is a turn-based game?
A turn-based game really
is a game that has turns.
So each individual participant
in the game will go sequentially.
And not everybody has to
be there at the same time.
Some examples of turn-based games.
We can do chess, checkers, backgammon,
go.
Some sort of standard type games.
Something a little bit more
complicated would be a bridge.
Card games where you
have multiple people.
I mean, it's clear that the turn
goes around in the bidding.
Those are familiar with bridge now,
right?
And obviously all the interesting things
that you're going to come out with.
We've all seen instances of board
games which could be implemented
as turn-based or some strategy,
not necessarily real-time strategy,
games.
And I'm really excited about this.
And I can't say how much I'm looking
forward to the games that are
going to show up on the app store.
Here we actually have an example.
So one way that we've been
visualizing this is people sitting
around a table playing a game.
And one person has the turn.
So that person is the only person in
the game who can affect the state.
So they have the dice.
It's their turn to roll.
They're going to move.
Everybody else is sort of waiting.
And traditionally the turn will go around
the table in sort of an orderly manner,
each person having their opportunity
to take one turn at a time.
We've also introduced an interesting
concept to this which was matchmaking.
And so we've seen P2P matchmaking
where essentially when a P2P match,
a live game we've been calling it,
is everybody needs to be
there at the same time.
And so what we've done is we've
actually developed a game that's
kind of a matchmaking type of thing.
And with matchmaking,
what you find is you want to start
a match in a turn based game,
but there aren't really people there yet.
Right?
And it's asynchronous.
So they can be filled in as necessary.
So what happens in our
implementation is as you make
turns and you go around the game,
you're going to set the turn to a
participant who might not actually
have a player in the seat yet.
And as it becomes their turn,
the matchmaker will find a person for
them and fit them into their slot.
So it will be their turn
and they will be able to go.
This is really interesting because
it has the effect that every
time that I go and I create a
new match and I matchmake into it,
it's my turn.
As soon as I get a callback from
the matchmaker view controller,
in this case it's a turn based
matchmaker view controller,
it's my turn.
The other thing is to
talk about the control.
So we've seen it go around the
table in a clockwise manner,
but it doesn't have to.
When you end your turn,
you say who the next participant
is and it can go in any direction.
It can be the next person,
it can be the last person,
it can be the person
across the table from me.
We don't define that at all.
And lastly, what we do support is we
support multiple matches.
So you can have up to
15 matches at a time.
Some of them is your turn,
some of them is somebody else's turn.
Because of the asynchronous nature,
I'm going to go in one and I'm
going to send a notification to
the persons that I'm playing,
to the person whose next turn it is,
and while I'm waiting for them,
to return to me,
I can go and I can start another
game or I can make a move in a
game that I've been invited to,
all sorts of instances like that.
I'm going to show you a little bit
of what the UI that we're providing.
So you would typically start your
game and here I have what we call a
turn based matchmaker view controller.
And it really has two functions.
And the first function is to
show you a list of the games that
you're currently involved in.
Right?
The ones that are my turn,
there's three sections to this.
The first section shows you the
games which require your action.
So it's my turn.
I have the ability to change
the state of the game.
I have three games here.
The first one is with Jessica.
The second one with Eunice.
And the third one is
an auto match player.
It's a new game.
I haven't started.
It says when the last
turn of the game was.
The second section is
the other player's turn.
So if I'm in a multiplayer game and
there are other people sitting around,
virtually sitting around,
playing the game,
we can see when they made their turn,
whose turn it is, a little notification.
And again, I've showed you an example
of an auto match player.
So in this case,
I've actually made the first turn.
And I'm waiting for somebody to
come and claim their spot so that
they can take the second turn.
The third section in here is a game over.
And you can see here we have a little
custom message which you can play.
You can provide.
So there were two different games there.
And we can show those.
The second functionality,
if you notice right at
the top right-hand corner,
there's a plus button.
And this will allow you
to create a new match.
And the view for the new match looks
very much similar to the P2P match maker.
So you're all familiar with this.
It allows you the ability
to invite somebody.
Here I've invited my friend Eunice.
It allows you to set slots as auto match.
So this would be a three-person game
where Eunice would be second and an
auto match would be that empty seat.
: This is really interesting.
And lastly,
what we do is we provide some support in
the home page so that we badge your app
for you so you can easily -- your users
can easily see how many turns they have.
In this case,
I have turns in two different matches.
And we support the new notifications.
So we can see here it's an
invite notification from Unus.
Now what I'd like to do is bring
back Jordan Ceccarelli to the stage,
our ace achievement hunter here,
to show us a little bit of how this
works in action with the game that
we've been showing all morning,
which is Rochambeau, Jordan,
how about it?
All right.
Turn-based games.
Woo!
Exciting.
Okay.
So here we go.
Many of you,
if you were in our other sessions,
we did single player
and multiplayer games,
may have wondered that we have
a badge here for Rochambeau.
And this badge actually means that we
have two turns that are waiting us.
So it's actually two games that are
waiting for us to make our move.
So at a quick glance,
looking at the springboard, you can go,
oh, okay, cool.
We've got two turns.
So here's our app.
We're going to go into turn-based
because that's what we're
going to focus on right now.
And here is the matchmaking screen
that Gabe was just talking about.
And much like our other ones, you know,
it should look pretty familiar.
It's got the green felt.
You have the header up top, the icon.
The awesome star rating so you can
actually have your game rated from this,
which is very cool.
And now you've got your three sections.
The top section is your turn.
This is literally, you know,
they're playing checkers, chess.
It's just waiting for you
to make the next move.
The other player, you know,
they have their phone in their pocket.
They're doing whatever they're doing,
and they're just waiting
for you to make a move.
The second section here are
turns that you can make.
They're just waiting
for you to make a move.
The second section here are
turns that you can make a move.
And so you can see how many
outstanding games you have.
And then finally we have
the game over section.
And these are games
that you've completed.
And this section, you know,
it's kind of up to you for what
you would like to show for this.
It could be the board's last state.
In this case, it's going to be just
replaying the Rochambeau game.
Because, you know,
maybe you totally kicked butt and you
want to go back and watch it again.
So let's go through these.
Let's do one where it's my turn.
So someone has sent me a game here.
I don't know what they've picked.
Rock, paper, scissors, I'm not sure.
So I'm feeling lucky.
Let's go scissors.
Looks like we both picked scissors
and I picked it a little faster.
No, I picked it a little slower.
Ugh, okay, I lost.
I was getting excited on that one.
So I've lost the crown on this one,
but it was a fun game.
Losing sometimes is fun.
So we go back to our turn-based
here and you can see that game
has been removed from your turn.
The game is now over.
It's done.
So let's say for some reason I want
to show that game to my friend.
Oh, you'd love to see this.
I had this awesome tie.
I thought I was going to win, but I lost.
And your friend is like, oh, that's lame.
But you're like,
you can show them at any point.
So say you're done with that.
You're done with that game.
It's a harsh memory you don't
want to remember ever again.
So you can come here and you can just
swipe the game and you can remove it.
So this game is now gone.
I don't have to relive this memory again.
Likewise, let's say you've made a turn
and it's been on your friend,
it's been a couple days,
you're trying to play a game with them,
they don't want to play the
game anymore and you don't
want this on your list anymore.
You can just slide and
actually resign from the game.
The same goes for ones
where it's your turn,
you can just slide there
and quit from the game.
So let's create a game.
So here we have our
regular matchmaking screen.
You can invite a friend.
You can auto match.
You can add players
here by selecting this.
You can remove players.
Let's say we want to get in a scenario
where you want to invite one player
and you want to auto match one player.
You can customize this how you want.
In this case, for a single auto match,
this is going to place me up against
another player who is also looking
for a two-player auto match game.
The neat thing about turn-based games
that a live game won't have is the
concept of always being your turn.
What does that mean?
In this case, when you create a game,
guess what?
When you create the game,
you're making the very first move.
It's always your turn.
When you want to make a game, boom,
your turn.
Your friend doesn't get notified
when you create this game.
Because then your friend gets
the notification and then what?
Then they wait around and that's no fun.
Your friend is actually going
to get the notification after
you've made your first turn.
Your friend gets the notification, hey,
do you want to play Rochambeau?
You're like, okay, cool.
When you click on it, guess what?
It's your turn as that player.
And so it eliminates the waiting,
trying to get your friends together,
like, oh, let's wait for this person.
He's finishing dinner.
This guy is playing Xbox.
We want everyone to get together at once.
This is just you make the game,
you make the move, you send it off,
and when the other player gets it,
guess what?
It's their turn.
They're good to go.
So we're going to send, let's say,
our friend Eunice.
We'll send a match.
Hey, let's play.
So we hit play now, but again,
they're not receiving
any notification of this.
In a live game, they would have.
So in this case, I'm going to pick paper
because I like paper.
And now we're back here at the menu.
I can move on with my life.
I can go to another game.
I can go to another turn-based game.
And this will wait until
Unix makes their move.
And in this game,
if Unix makes their move,
it'll immediately cut to the
game so I can see in real
time what actually happened,
and then I can go back
and watch it again.
So with that sheet, you can, once again,
play your games that are
waiting for your turn.
You can see your games that
you're waiting for their turn,
and you can rewatch games you've played.
You can delete them at will as well.
You can resign.
Turn-based games is very exciting.
I'm really, really, much like Gabe,
looking forward to playing some of these.
It's new for Game Center in iOS 5.
Right on, guys.
We're really looking forward to that.
So thanks a lot.
Gabe, back to you.
Take it away.
Thank you.
[Transcript missing]
I'm trying to follow the flow
that Christy did in the Ready,
Set, Go, but it's not exactly the same.
But here we go.
You want to start a match,
you need to pick players in a match,
and there's a few different
ways that we can do this.
You can use our matchmaking UI.
You can bring it up from in-game.
You can hit play from Game Center.
That works for turn-based gaming as well.
And a user can accept an invite.
So they're not really
deciding who's in the game,
but somebody's invited them
to a game that already exists.
Once you have the players,
there's a few different ways
that you can get the match.
Did find match,
which is a delegate callback
on the view controller,
which I'll show you on the next slide.
There's load match data.
So if you have the match ID,
maybe you created your own UI.
But if you have a match ID that you know,
you can load the match
directly using that.
And you want to take your turn,
which is end turn.
So you're going to be passing the
turn around to different folks.
They'll see the updated match data.
They'll see your message.
They'll be able to make
some action on the game.
And they'll end turns.
And this will go on until
the end of the game,
at which point you have
basically three exits.
You can quit, whether it's your turn or
whether it's not your turn.
There's a few different subtleties there.
If it's your turn,
you hold the baton and you need
to pass it off to somebody.
Otherwise, it's dead in the water.
And you can end the match.
So ending the match basically
ends it for everybody.
I just won.
Everybody else is done.
So these are the different -- I'm
going to try to do them in order.
All the different sort of activities,
tasks that we can do.
We talked about the view controller.
You've seen it.
I just want to reiterate before
I show you how to use it.
You use this in your game so
that you can allow your user
to choose a match to play.
They can quit from the match.
They can remove a match from the list.
They can do all those kind of
management stuff of their game lists.
There's the ability
to create a new match.
Right?
And we've seen we can
do that using invites.
And we can also use auto match.
And I'll show you both of those.
So this is how you can
use the view controller.
The first thing, it's kind of a repeat.
You've seen the match request.
I'm not going to go
over the match request.
But it's exactly the same
match request that we used for
P2P and hosted multiplayer.
So the properties on there
that you're most interested in,
it would be the minimum player.
The maximum number of players.
Right?
You want to initialize
the view controller.
In this case,
it's clearly differentiated.
It's called a turn-based
matchmaker view controller.
So this is for turn-based only.
You initialize it with the match request.
The next couple of lines,
this one is interesting.
Show existing matches.
So we've seen that there's two screens.
Or there's sort of like two screens.
The first one is the list
of all the matches that
you're currently involved in.
And the second one is
more of a -- you know,
more of a creation.
So to create a new match or to
get matched into a new match.
To get auto matched.
And so we allow you the ability through
some of the APIs to generate your own
lists and you can create your own UI.
But if you want to use our UI,
just set that property
on the view controller.
Show existing matches.
And that will bring up
the list of matches.
There's a delegate.
It's a turn-based matchmaker.
Should be turn-based matchmaker
view controller for you.
Right.
And I'm going to go over the delegate
callbacks on the next screen and
then present the view controller.
So this is all very similar to what
we've seen earlier if you've been here.
Or you've created any P2P games
using Game Center in the past.
So here's the delegate callbacks.
There's four of them.
The first one is the one that
we're most interested in.
I did find match.
So you will get this whenever
the user selects a match.
This is, you know, it's my turn.
I want to go.
It's the end of the game.
I want you to replay it or I've
just created a new game or just
been matched into a new game.
So the first thing I do is
I dismiss the controller.
Right?
And then the second thing I do is I'm
checking to see whether it's my turn.
Because if it's my turn, right,
I show the state of the game.
I missed that, right?
So you want to update your UI.
This is the match that the
player is interested in.
Show the board.
Show the, you know,
it's totally your game.
So I can't...
You can't fathom yet
what's going to be there.
And this will give you a
quick way to check to see.
So what I'm doing is I'm
taking the current player ID,
right, and I'm checking to see if
there actually is one because
it might be on a matching slot,
in which case there's no player ID.
And if there is one,
I'm comparing it to the
local player's player ID,
which would be the person
who's logged in on the device.
And that way you can tell
whether it's my turn.
If it's my turn, I want to go.
So allow user actions,
allow me to submit my turn,
whatever it needs to be in your
game for me to actually go.
The second view controller delegate
callback is player quit for match.
This one I'm not going to go into too
much details now other than showing it.
But when I talk about quitting
later on in the session,
I'll revisit this one.
So because we have this concept
of it's always one person's turn,
you can think of it as there's a
baton that you're passing around
the different participants.
And if I'm holding the baton and I quit,
right, then the game's pretty much dead
in the water unless I have an
opportunity to pass it off as I quit.
And so that's exactly what this is.
Participant quit in turn.
So I give myself a match outcome.
Maybe it's just quit.
I define who the next participant is.
Who should get the turn?
And if there's any updated state,
so maybe I have to remove
my pieces from the board,
that kind of thing,
I have the ability to do it here.
But I'll go into a little
bit more detail later.
This is the callback that we expect.
And this will actually remain in our UI.
Right?
So you're still in our UI.
They swipe.
They quit.
You get the callback.
You quit the game.
And then we go back to our UI.
We stay in our UI.
You shouldn't necessarily
dismiss -- in fact,
you shouldn't dismiss the
view controller at this point.
So the first thing is if I cancel,
I decide that I don't want to look at a
game or I just wanted to look at my games
but I don't really want to play any,
there's a cancel button in
the top left-hand corner.
And you should handle this
just by dismissing the
controller is probably best.
And then the last one
is there's a failure.
Maybe you're not online and I tried
to create a new game or -- I mean,
there's a few different cases there.
But you'd want to handle the error,
dismiss the view controller,
go back to your menu,
go back to whatever the
user was doing before.
you brought up the view controller.
So invites.
Here you can see I've invited Eunice.
I haven't pressed play yet.
Invites, as Jordan mentioned before,
are also asynchronous.
So unlike P2P where we've seen
it goes through this phase where
I send an invite to somebody,
they respond to it,
we go through a connecting phase,
and it's not until everybody's ready
that I can start to play the game.
In this case, I'm inviting Eunice.
She'll be attached to the game.
She'll get the invite when it's her turn.
She'll get a notification.
But it means that when I press play now,
I'm going to get a match back.
It's going to be my turn.
I'm going to go.
Right?
There's one sort of caveat declining.
If somebody decides that they're
going to decline an invite,
since they only get the
invite on their turn,
they're stuck holding the baton.
And there's really not much that we
can do at that point because they
might have declined because they
don't have the application installed.
They might be on an iOS 4.
device.
I mean, there's a few reasons for that.
And we can't guarantee at that point that
we're going to be able to give control
back to the developer so that they
can choose where the baton should go.
It's unfortunate,
but it's the nature of turn-based games.
Here what I've done is I've
updated this a little bit.
You can see what happens
after the invite.
This would be the match that
would be returned to me.
Right?
So it's match 001.
It's really a UUID,
but just so that I can keep
the slides differentiated.
The current participant
in this case is me.
I'm the local player ID.
I just started the game.
I have an invited player ID,
and their status is invited.
So they haven't responded to this yet.
It's my turn.
I can go.
When I go,
I'm going to decide I'm going to change
the current participant so the next
participant will be the invited person,
and they'll actually get the invite.
The other way we can
support is matchmaking.
So auto match.
Right?
Well, I just leave the slot open.
I don't invite anybody.
And they'll get filled in.
Since it's asynchronous and
that person doesn't actually get
filled in until it's necessary,
the same scenario happens.
I'll get a match back.
It will be my turn.
I can go.
We'll fill in the slots as necessary.
One other thing that might actually
happen here is I might get matched
into a game that's already ongoing,
in which case I would be
that auto matched player.
Right?
But in all cases,
it's my turn when I get this match back.
Right?
You obviously can do this.
You can have up to 16 people.
You can have some invited,
some auto matched.
It works really great.
Whenever I set the next
participant to a match,
to an auto match player,
our services will find a player for that.
For that seat.
And it kind of looks like this.
So the other one, I had the second player
was actually Eunice.
I invited her.
She had a player ID.
In this case, there's no player ID,
and it's just status of matching.
It's a second match.
Distinguished a little bit.
And the status on the match is
matching instead of being open.
What happens is as I'm going through,
I'll make the next turn,
and the server will find
somebody for that person.
Right?
So now I have a remote player ID.
He's active.
It's his turn.
He's just been returned.
And the status on the match becomes open.
So this will make more sense as I go
through some of the other code pieces.
The next thing that I need to
talk about is event handling.
three different types of events.
Invites from Game Center.
So we've seen that.
If I'm looking at a friend's
games list and I have,
you know, I decide I want to play him,
I'll play him.
We'll send you a notification.
We'll send you kind of notification,
but you'll get a call back on
one of the delegates that says,
I want to invite these people.
Turn notifications.
So if you've been invited and you
accept the invite or it's an ongoing
game and the turn comes back to me,
there's a notification.
This one will actually have a
notification in the notification
center and a call back for you.
Similarly, once the game is over.
So when I end the game,
a notification goes out to
all the participants in the
game that the game is over.
So they have the ability to look
at the resolution of the game.
And I'll show you some.
Some of the event handler delegates.
The first one is handle
invite from Game Center.
So this is very similar
to getting a player,
a list of players, right?
You get a list of,
you get an NSArray of players to invite.
You start with a match request.
The difference is you attach
that players to invite that
array to the match request.
And you initialize a view controller
in the same manner that you did before.
In this case, what I've done is I've.
Show existing matches no,
because the user is clearly
in shown his intention that
he wants to invite somebody.
So I can skip the first screen,
go right to the match creation screen.
I set myself as the delegate so I can
handle the callbacks and I present it.
So the user will see it.
The next notification that you'll get,
the next callback you'll get is
a handle turn event for match.
So this means that a turn
is now available for you.
And it could be in any one
of the outstanding matches.
And it won't be the greatest user
experience if I'm in the middle of one
match and I get a turn notification
for the other match and you pull
the rug out from underneath me.
So what I'm doing here is I'm
checking just to see whether the
match that I'm looking at is the
same one as I just got a callback on.
Right?
If it is,
then what I can do is I can update the
state in real time that I'm looking at.
Otherwise, maybe I want to delay
presenting that to the user.
Maybe I'll want him to
pick it from a list.
Maybe I just want to notify him
that there's a turn somewhere else,
right?
If it is, I'm going to want to update the
match that I'm currently holding
because there's new data there.
It's my turn,
so I want to update the UI and
I want to allow turn submission.
So that means allowing
actions in your game,
in your UI that will allow me to
Do what I need to do
to make the next turn.
Handle match ended.
Same thing.
I'm just checking to see whether it's
the match that I'm currently looking at.
If it is, then I can show the
resolution right away.
Otherwise, maybe I want to delay it,
depending on where I am
in the state of your app.
Those are the three delegates that
you're going to need to implement.
Here's a little bit more
details about the actual class.
So it's a GK turn-based match and
these are the properties it has.
So it has a match ID I've
talked about before.
It's a UUID.
There's a creation date so you
know when the game has started.
We show this.
You can use this in your own
UI if you're creating your own UI.
Indication of when...
helps the player maybe decide which
game it is that they want to look at.
There's an array of participants.
There's a status.
There's a current participant.
That's the one whose turn it is.
Match data,
which is the state of the game.
We store in our servers for you.
And there's a custom message.
So that custom message gets
passed with the notifications on
turns and at the end of a game.
And then there's the GK turn-based
participant and the properties player ID,
which might not be there
if it's a matching.
The last turn date,
if they've ever made a turn.
It will timestamp it when the last
turn that that participant made.
The status, which could be active or
done or matching or invited,
those kind of things.
And a match outcome,
which we can use to show on our
UI and you can use to show on your UI.
So submitting a turn.
This is, you know, primarily the meet.
So it's my turn.
I've gotten the state of the data.
I want to update it.
I want to pass it to somebody.
So the first thing I do is
I update the match data.
This is a function that you're going to
create because the match data is yours.
It represents the state of the game.
The players are on the board.
Those kind of things, right?
The next thing I'm going to do is I'm
going to pick our next participant.
I've just shown you a simple
example here of actually picking
the next one in the list.
So I get the index in the
array of participants,
right?
I add one, mod it so that it goes
around in a circle,
and that's the next person.
What you'd really want to do
is in a more advanced case,
you'd want to look to see if the
status of that player is appropriate.
If somebody who's quit,
you don't want to give the
turn to somebody who quit.
That's going to be an error.
But it's pretty simple.
The next participant has to be an object
that comes from that participant's array.
Otherwise, it's an error.
And then I set a custom message.
Finally, once I've set all the
parameters that I need,
I call end turn with next participant.
Defining who the next participant is,
match data,
define what the new match data is.
This is going to be sent up to
our servers and stored there.
And a completion handler.
So when it's done,
if there are any errors,
maybe my match data was too big,
we limit it to 4K.
Maybe the next participant
doesn't make sense.
Maybe it's not even my turn.
So those are some of the
errors that you might get back.
Now I'm going to show you what the
match looks like after I've made a turn.
So you can see the first match
that I was playing with Eunice.
There's my custom
message that I just set.
There's my match data that
gets associated to it.
And now the current participant
is pointing at her because
I just set it to her.
So when she downloads,
she'll get a notification.
The match will get loaded.
This is what she'll say.
It's her turn only from her perspective.
She'll be the local user.
So a little bit on turn flow.
I showed you the diagram at the beginning
where you saw it turn around on a clock.
But essentially we've been
talking about this baton.
So the match data and
the next participant,
sort of the keys, can only be set by the
current participant.
If you try to do an end turn or an
end game and it's not your turn,
you'll get an error back.
That's really what turn-based gaming is.
One person has control at a
time and they pass it around.
The next participant can
be set to any participant.
You can even set it to yourself.
If you want to make a turn
and then make another turn,
okay.
I'm sure there's use cases for that.
I can set it to the person on my right,
the person on my left, anyone.
Anyone in that participant array.
Of course,
if I set it to somebody who's matching,
that's an indication
that when you upload it,
we need to find somebody who's
going to match to that spot.
So we're going to find the next
person who's going to come in,
who matches, to match those parameters,
and give that back to him and
it's his turn or her turn.
So that's turn flow.
But the focus here is that there's
really only one person that can make
changes to the match at any one time.
And the flexibility of the
changes that they can make.
Match data.
It's in NSData.
It's stored on our servers.
It's defined by you.
It's interpreted by you.
We treat it sort of like an opaque blob
that we pass around with the match.
It's limited to 4K.
So you're going to need to
be a little bit creative on
how you can store this data.
Some examples,
player positions around a board,
what their last turns were.
If you don't find that
there's enough space,
you can use this as a pointer to your
own server if you need more than 4K.
One of the things that we might suggest
is you can use it as a pointer to
some static data already in your app.
And this is the cool thing about
being stored on the server is that it
can be retrieved on multiple devices.
So if I'm playing a game and I start
it on my iPad and I leave my house
and I get a notification on my phone,
oh, this is cool.
I'm riding the bus to work.
And I can take a turn.
So I do.
Right?
And it loads the data and it
gives me an updated state of
what's really going on now.
And it's cross-device.
So that's pretty cool.
Quitting a match.
So we've done the turns, right?
We've updated the state.
We've shown how you can
pass the baton around.
And now I actually -- okay, I'm done.
I'm over with, right?
Quitting a match is one of the
ways that you can end your game,
sort of abandoning it.
And there's three different
ways that you can affect a quit.
Quitting from a match
when it's your turn.
So there's API calls for the first two.
And then there's a callback
for the second one.
Quitting a match when it's not your turn,
when somebody else is in the match turn.
And then finally quitting
the match from the UI.
That's -- I made
reference to that before.
I showed you the slide.
But I'll actually talk about what
the different parameters mean.
You might be a little bit
more familiar with it now.
It's a callback from our UI.
So you can quit from our UI.
If you've implemented our UI.
So, quitting a turn.
It's my turn, I have the baton.
I don't really want to play anymore,
but I don't want to cause
the rest of the match to die.
So, I'm going to pass it off to somebody.
Right?
And so, what I have to do now is I have
to determine what the data is.
So, the new match data, update it.
I have to pick the next participant.
I have a little function called choose
next participant from the match.
And I call participant
quit in turn with outcome.
So, I'm giving myself an outcome of quit.
GK turn-based match outcome quit.
But there are a few others you can use.
Lose, for example.
Next participant,
who I define who gets the
baton next and who has the
ability to make the next move.
And updated match data.
It gets sent to our server.
It's a completion handler.
I suppose you should handle the
error if there is one because you're
offline or it's not your turn.
Those kind of things.
And the play can continue without you.
What you'll see in what the match
looks like I'll show you in a
minute after I go through the
other two methods of quitting.
So quitting out of your turn.
Really not much you can do, right?
You don't have control of the board.
You don't have control of the game.
You can't change the status of the game.
You can't change the data on the game.
You can't change whose turn it is.
All you can really do,
this is kind of like an abandon, right?
So what you can do in this case is you
can set yourself to a match outcome.
You can quit the game.
And it's really simple.
And of course the last one is
probably the most complex one,
right, is the callback.
So this is a delegate callback on
the matchmaker view controller,
on the turn-based
matchmaker view controller.
It's called player quit for match.
So this indicates that
the player actually quit.
So I brought down the UI and there was
one of the sections that was my turn and
I don't want to play this game anymore,
so I swipe and I press quit.
Well, you're holding the baton.
You need to pass it off as you do this.
So we give you that ability.
We'll call you back,
player quit for match.
And essentially what you have to
do is as if you were making a turn
or you were quitting from turn,
it's exactly the same thing.
You have to define what the
new match date is going to be.
You have to choose an ex-participant
and you call participant
quit in turn without count.
If you don't implement this,
then it's going to be a poor
UI experience because somebody
is going to swipe to quit.
We'll call you back, you ignore it,
and the person never actually quits.
So we give you that ability.
If somebody actually quits from the game,
maybe you've implemented it so that
they have to load it and quit it.
We suggest you implement this.
It's not all that difficult to do.
And here you can see the
parameters on this were next
participant and match data.
So quite simple.
This is what the match will
look like after you quit.
So the local player is done,
not involved in the game anymore,
and my status, my match outcome was quit.
And I passed it off.
So I guess this would be Eunice, right?
Would have the ability to choose,
you know,
does she want to continue the game?
If it makes sense, if there are multiple
people in the match,
it certainly does.
In a two-player match,
maybe your quit is really an end match,
but that's okay.
You have that kind of flexibility, right?
And so lastly,
the last kind of task that you would need
to accomplish for this is ending a match.
Right?
Again, you need the baton to be
able to end the match,
right?
So only the current participant,
if your local player is
the current participant,
then they will be able to end the match.
You need to set outcomes for everybody.
The game is going to be over.
There really is no next
participant after this.
It will show up in the game
over section for everybody.
And a notification is going to be
sent to all the other participants.
I'm not going to send
a notification myself.
Doesn't make too much sense.
And this is what it looks like.
So the first thing I do
is I'm setting outcomes.
There's a match outcome,
which we've seen is a property
on one of the participants.
In this case,
I'm just setting everybody to tied.
It's really simple, just for an example,
but you really want to
set the appropriate one.
Whether somebody won,
whether somebody lost,
it's a bit field and there's
even a section there for you
to be able to set your own.
Custom outcome that you can use
if you're creating your own UI or
you want to present in your game.
I need to resolve the game because
this is the last chance that
I have to set what the data state
is going to be for the game.
Everybody will see this as
a result of a notification.
Anybody who loads this game
who was a participant in it.
So this is really the
last possible thing.
And I have one more
opportunity to set a message.
This is an end game message.
So game is over.
What you've seen in our demo
case is press here to see the
match outcome as an example.
And I call end match in turn.
There is no end match out of turn.
You have to be your turn.
With a completion handler and the
same kind of errors that you would get
from any of the other submission type.
[Transcript missing]
Exactly, right?
Demos.
When you're in Game Center and you're
looking at somebody's list and you see
a game and you want to play against them
and you both have the game installed,
you can press play and as you
bring up the view controller,
it will automatically
have selected that person.
That's actually kind of neat.
So if you guys are going
to do customizations,
I didn't show it to you here,
but the documentation
is quite good on this.
There's a few methods that you can use
so that you can provide your own UI.
You can list matches.
You can load individual matches.
They will just give you a summary of the
match IDs and the participants in them.
You can create your own UI.
I think if anybody was
watching the Game Essentials,
they did a little bit with
this app called Word for Word.
They're also replaying on Friday.
Suggest you go there if you're
really interested in writing games.
They've done some custom UI for this.
You can determine the
state of the matches.
So you can look at the
state of the match.
You can see whether it's matching,
whether it's open, whether it's ended.
So you can use those kind of parameters.
When you're creating your UI, custom UI.
The only caveat that we say
is if you want to create a new
match that includes invites,
then you need to use
our invite controller.
So the GK turn-based
matchmaker view controller.
If you don't want us to do the list,
you can just set that property,
show existing matches to no,
and just use it for invites.
There's also a function.
A method on GK turn-based match that
will allow you to do a quick auto
match without any UI involved at all.
Just give it a match
request and we're done.
So as a sort of a summary,
just to cover what we've
talked about before,
I showed you all the UI.
We showed a demo of it.
Hope you're all really excited
to go out and use these things.
I showed you what events
you need to handle,
how to create matches, how to make turns,
how to quit and end games.
It's all really cool.
Most of these sessions,
I didn't know about the repeats,
but most of these sessions
were early in this morning.
They're here mostly so when
you review this and you're
looking for more material,
because I think that they're
going to release all the slides
and videos in a few weeks,
you'll know what to refer to.
The introduction that was
done by Nate Tuesday is being
repeated Friday morning.
And also repeated Friday morning
is the two game essentials that
I think Graham is providing.
Those are really cool.
Lastly, if you have any questions,
then we're not here.
You can talk to our evangelist,
Alan Shaver.
This is his email address.
And dev forums.
We follow the forums.
We respond to the forums.
It's a great place to do that.
- Thank you.
Be able to talk to us other than here,
but really I encourage everybody to
come downstairs this afternoon and
talk to us directly because that's...
That's what we love the most.
Thank you for coming.
Hope you enjoyed it.
I hope you're going to create
some awesome games for us.